### Caution

If you have a cheat like this:

```
[60 FPS]
580F0000 0AB4E058
580F1000 00000018
580F1000 000000A0
780F0000 00000F14
640F0000 00000000 00000001
580F0000 0AB49108
780F0000 00000034
680F0000 00000000 00000000
580F0000 0B314540
780F0000 000007F8
640F0000 00000000 00000007
780F0000 00000004
640F0000 00000000 42700000
780F0000 00000014
640F0000 00000000 00000000
```

**You can't convert/update it** using Code Updater for Nintendo Switch. This is a cheat made on real hardware so only the person who made it can update it.

If you want to convert it to mod (.pchtxt) you would have to look for other methods and understand how the cheat works.

### Video guide

This is a [quick video guide](https://youtu.be/8FbzlcadVQY?si=Nx4uSKnY40xyXt-k) about what I'm going to explain in this written guide.

Check it out. Especially if you got lost at any step.

### Steps

In this guide I'm going to skip the information you should know and go straight to the point.

You can always check the rest of the guides [HERE](https://github.com/StevensND/ghidra-port-mods-guide/tree/main/Code%20Updater%20for%20Nintendo%20Switch).

>[!CAUTION]
Code Updater for Nintendo Switch might not work all the time. Sometimes it can ignore and miss one line of the entire code or just ignore all the cheat and only make 1 change (for instance: you can't use Code Updater for Nintendo Switch directly to update/port cheats starting at 080E0000) so check if it's something missing. If you miss something update/port the mod using Ghidra.

1. Drag the `.pchtxt file` of the update that you want to use into our first script: `ips+pchtxt2cheat.py`.

This will convert our .pchtxt (ExeFS, IPS) to .txt in cheat format.

So when you open the .txt file you will see something like:

```
// auto generated by ips2cheat

[Cheat]
04000000 009BE538 52800014
```

2. Open Code Updater for Nintendo Switch and locate the `Old Main File` section. Click on Load and select the main corresponding to the update related to the mod.

In my case it's the update 1.0.1

3. Now do the same for the `New Main File` section. This same select the new update. In my case 3.0.0

4. Paste the info inside the .txt file generated into the `Input Old Codes` section.

```
// auto generated by ips2cheat

[Cheat]
04000000 009BE538 52800014
```

4. Click on Generate and spam the button until you see all info is generated on `New Codes Output` section.

5. Create a new .txt file and paste the `New Codes Output` section info there. Finally save the .txt file.

6. Drag this new .txt file into our second script `cheat2pchtxt.py`

It will generate a new .txt file called `PCHTXT Converted (1).txt`. Open this file.

7. Copy the new info generated inside `PCHTXT Converted (1).txt` and paste + replace it in your new .pchtxt file.

8. Continue replacing the nsobid and the rest of the neccesary info and done. That's all.